---
title: Note on Learn Unity
internal: true
---



materials:

official docs

very good course! https://catlikecoding.com/unity/tutorials/

The difference with typical programming is creating a game requires a lot of different kind of files.

So everything is assets, and there are engine defined assets, they are edited using the GUI itself.

So there are a lot of panels to edit the in game assets. Coding is done using external text editor, it generates a project file. This is kind of new to me.

The "Library" folder is kind of like the `build/`, `target/` folder, but for assets. It is a separate folder apart from `Assets`, kind of new to me...

Only assets and project settings is checked in in VCS.

So you have these systems:

* language
* engine
  * physics
  * rendering
  * AI
* packages
  * builtin
  * official
  * asset store / user
* engine settings
* your own stuff (build result)

to get the build result, you have these systems:

* editor
* import pipeline
* external tools (modeling, etc.)

A lot of abstractions and systems. Really complicated

* assets are tracked by unique ids. and they have their import settings in the same meta file
* 3d modeling source file can usually be imported by plugins directly
* a lot of time you need to create fields to link the assets to script, they are not configrations, but ...

Another thing is some assets needs additional information to perform "staged computation"
* static game objects

### rendering pipeline

https://catlikecoding.com/unity/tutorials/basics/measuring-performance/ frame debugger can help visualize how forward rendering works

* srp batcher can have less context switch, but still a lot of draw calls.

* one thing is the in the rendering pipeline, you can use compute shader to produces mashes, then these mashes are integrated into the rendering pipeline, with all the shadows and stuff
* one thing is all the complex systems are not that cleaver, simple benchmarks like in the tutorial reveals a lot